# Calculating UV Surface Brightness of 1kpc Radius Region around Supernova

####Code Summary:

The script 'Surface Brightness.ipynb' uses input values from the file 'GALEX flux single.csv' to determine the surface brightness of a supernova's local environment. The input file contains a list of super nova, the redshift of their environment,  their observed average photon counts per second, and the corresponding exposure time. The script references information from the input file by column number (indexed at zero). Because of this it is necessary to properly specify what column number corresponds to what value before using the script. For example, column 1 may correspond to redshift values while column 2 may contain average photon counts per second. These parameters are pointed out in comments toward the beginning of the script and can be changed manually. This particularly important because the input file has values for near and far UV observations, and the script can only be run for one set of values at a time.

In the case where the input file has no value for counts per second, the script will treat it as 'nan' and report it as such in the output file. A more specific outline of how the code works is contained in comments within the .ipynd file itself.

####File Descriptions:
1. [File list.csv] (https://github.com/mwvgroup/Surface-Brightness/blob/master/csv/File%20List.csv) contains a list of the .tar archives corresponding to each supernova.

2. [GALEX flux all.csv] (https://github.com/mwvgroup/Surface-Brightness/blob/master/csv/GALEX%20flux%20all.csv) contains a list of redshift, cps values, and exposure times for multiple supernova from multiple .fits files.
  
3. [GALEX flux single.csv] (https://github.com/mwvgroup/Surface-Brightness/blob/master/csv/Galex%20flux%20single.csv) contains a list of redshift, cps values, and exposure times for multiple supernova from a single .fits files. This single value is chosen from the 'GALEX flux all.csv' file by selecting values with the longest exposure times.
  
4. [Surface Brightness.ipynb] (https://github.com/mwvgroup/Surface-Brightness/blob/master/csv/Surface%20Brightness.ipynb) is the script described above.
  
5. Output files are generated by [Surface Brightness.ipynb] (https://github.com/mwvgroup/Surface-Brightness/blob/master/csv/Surface%20Brightness.ipynb) using input information from [GALEX flux single.csv] (https://github.com/mwvgroup/Surface-Brightness/blob/master/csv/Galex%20flux%20single.csv). A different output file is generated for near and far uv observations.
  
####Notes:

1. For some cases there was no available redshift value for a supernova’s host environment. In these cases redshift values of the supernova itself were used. These cases include:

  ASASSN-15fj, ASASSN-15ho, CSS140425:161024+470440, CSS140501:170414+174839, CSS141123:091002+521856, iPTF13dad, iPTF13dkl, iPTFdkx, iPTF14gdr, iPTF15xi, LSQ12fuk, LSQ12gef, LSQ13crf, LSQ14age, LSQ14ahm, LSQ14fmg, LSQ14gde, LSQ15aae, PS1-13dkh, PS15aez, PS15mt, PS15sv, PTF11moy, PTF11qri, PTF11qzq, PTF13asv, PTF13ddg, SN2011ha, SN2011io, SN2012go, SN2013bo, SN2013bq, SN2013ck, SN2014dk

2. When inheriting this project there were two supernova "iPTFdkj", and "iPTFdkx" in the the input file 'GALEX flux.csv' that were missing associated redshift info and .fits files. I took these as typos for iPTF13dkj, and iPTF13dkx.

3. The photon counts per second for each supernova were collected manually using ds9. If the exact pixel value of the source was 0 at the location of the supernova, the pixel with a value closest to the target was used. 

5. The script treats the error in pixel area and flux conversion factor as being zero. To change these alter the values of the variable Pixel_area_err and flux_conv_err respectively. 
